the second book of Samuel now it came to
pass after the death of Saul when David
had returned from the slaughter of the
Amalekites and David had stayed two days
in Ziklag on the third day behold it
happened that a man came from Saul's
camp with his clothes torn and dust on
his head so it was when he came to David
but he fell to the ground and prostrated
himself and David said to him where have
you come from
I have escaped from the camp of Israel
how did the matter go please tell me the
people have fled from the battle many of
the people have fallen and dead
Saul and Jonathan asana are dead also
how do you know that Saul and Jonathan
his son are dead as I happened by chance
to be on mount cavora
there was saw leaning on his spear and
indeed the chariots and horsemen
followed hard after him now when he
looked behind him he saw me and called
to me and I answered Here I am and he
said to me who are you
so I answered him I am animalic aiight
he said to me again please stand over me
and kill me for anguish has come upon me
but my life still remains in me so I
stood over him and killed him because I
was sure that he could not live after he
had fallen and and I took the crown that
was on his head in the bracelet that was
on his arm and have brought him here to
my lord
therefore David took hold in his own
clothes and tore them and so did all the
men who were with him and they mourned
and wept and fasted until evening for
Saul and for Jonathan his son for the
people of the Lord and for the house of
Israel because they had fallen by the
sword then David said to the young man
who told him
where are you from
I am the son of an alien an Amalekite
how was it you were not afraid to put
forth your hand to destroy the Lord's
anointed then David called one of the
young men go near an execution and he
struck him so that he died so David said
to him your blood is on your own head
for your own mouth has testified against
you saying I have killed the Lord's
anointed then David lamented with this
lamentation over soul and over Jonathan
his son and he told them to teach the
children of Judah the song of the bow
indeed it is written in the book of
Jasher the beauty of Israel is slain on
your high places how the mighty have
fallen
tell it not in gas proclaim it not in
the streets of Ashkelon lest the
daughters of the Philistines rejoice
lest the daughters of the uncircumcised
triumph Oh mountains of Gilboa let there
be no Dew nor rain upon you nor fields
of offerings for the shield of the
mighty is cast away there the shield of
soul not anointed with oil from the
blood of the slain from the fat of the
mighty the bow of Jonathan did not turn
back and the sword of soul did not
return empty Saul and Jonathan were
beloved and pleasant in their lives and
in their death they were not divided
they were swifter than Eagles they were
stronger than lions o daughters of
Israel weep over Saul who clothed you in
scarlet with luxury who put ornaments of
gold on your apparel how the mighty have
fallen in the midst of the battle
Jonathan was slain in your high places I
am distressed for you my brother
Jonathan you have been very pleasant to
me your love to me was wonderful
surpassing the love of women how the
mighty have fallen and the weapons of
war perished
[Music]